Please answer the below core-java Questions:

What is programing language?
A. A programming language is a set of instruction that tells the computer to perform certain task.

What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
A. The Java Development Kit (JDK) is a software development environment used for developing Java applications and
   applets.It includes the Java Runtime Environment (JRE),an interpreter/loader (java), a compiler (javac),
   an archiver (jar), a documentation generator (javadoc) and other tools needed in Java development.

What is IDE?
A.Integrated Development Environment

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
A.Eclipse, Intellij, Netbeans, Bluejay, Visual Studio etc.

Explain the entire java life cycle.
A.1. Editing the program using IDE or text file
     2. Compiling the source code – either through IDE or (JAVAC) compiler
     3. Executing the byte code  JVM  interprets the bytecode for the OS

what is class?
A.Class is a blueprint of an object.

What is object?
A.Object is an Instance of Class.Java object is a combination of data and procedures working on the available data.

What is the entry point of an application?
A.The main method is the entry point of an application.

Why main is static?
A.The  main() method is  static  in nature,  which  means that this method can be directly accessed/called, without
having to instantiate or create an object of  the class.Hence, Java loader call main() method before creating any object every java program is declared static and
it is automatically called to execute a Java program.

Which class is the superclass of all classes?
A.The Object class, which is stored in the java.lang package, is the ultimate superclass of all Java classes

What is difference between path and classpath variables?
A.The main difference between PATH and CLASSPATH is that  PATH is an environment variable which is used to locate JDK
binaries like "java" or "javac" command used to run java program and compile java source file.On the other hand,
CLASSPATH, an environment variable is used by System or Application ClassLoader to locate and load compile Java
bytecodes stored in the .

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
A.Interface have all abstract method declared only, no method body, Abstract class can have Abstract and non Abstract
method.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
A. As per the java specification we are not allowed to create object to interface and abstract class directly. But we
can do that indirectly with the help of anonymous inner type.

what is Access Specifier?
A.Access modifiers or  specifiers) are keywords in object-oriented languages that set the accessibility of classes,
methods, and other members.

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP.
A.OOP stand - Object oriented Programming -a programming paradigm based on the concept of "objects", which may contain
data, in the form of fields, often known as attributes and code, in the form of procedures, often known as methods.

What is Java Package and which package is imported by default?
A. A Name Space, similar to a folder,  a package keeps a set of related classes and interfaces organized.
Java.lang package is imported by default.

What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
A.Application Programming Interface – all classes that are part of the JDK

Does java support multiple inheritance, explain why or why not?
A.No. If there are methods with same signature in both the super class and subclass problems can occur determining
which method is being called.

What is method overloading and when it happens?
A.Method Overloading is a feature that allows a class to have more than one method having the same name, if their
argument lists are different.It happens in compile time.

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it?
A.An exceptions is a problem that arises during the execution of a program. When an Exception occurs the normal
flow of the program is disrupted and the program/Application terminates abnormally.Java provides two different
options to handle an exception. We can either use the try-catch-finally approach to handle all kinds of exceptions.
Or you can use the try-with-resource approach which allows an easier cleanup process for resources.

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
A.The static keyword denotes that a member variable, or method, can be accessed without creating an instantiation
of the class to which it belongs. when static key word is used with a method that method can be called without creating
a object.

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
A.final class cannot be subclassed. A final variable can only be initialized once.A final method cannot be overridden
by subclasses.

What is final, finally and finalize?
A.Final is used to apply restrictions on class, method and variable. Final class can't be inherited, final method can't
be overridden and final variable value can't be changed.Finally is used to place important code, it will be executed
whether exception is handled or not.Finalize is used to perform clean up processing just before object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
A.Constructor is being used to instantiate a object by using new operator. It is an instance method with the same name
of their class.

Can we have multiple constructors in a class?
A.Yes we can.

If we don't have a constructor declared, what is called during the object creation?
A.The default constructor.

What is "this" keyword in java ?
A."this" keyword is a reference variable that refers to the current object.

What is "super" keyword in java? How many possible way can you use?
A.super key word used for accessing the members of the super class by the extended class.

What is JVM stand for ?
A.Java Virtual Machine.

Is JVM platform independent?
A.Yes

What version of java are you using?
A.java 10.0.2 2018-07-17

What is JAR stand for ?
A.Java Archive file.

What is the difference between JDK and JVM?
A.Java Development Kit (JDK) is the development environment used for developing Java applications and includes the
Java Runtime Environment (JRE), an interpreter/loader (java), the javac compiler, and thb JAR archivers.JVM is java
virtual machine and executes bytecode at runtime.

What is the difference between JVM and JRE?
A.JVM is the heart of java programming language. When we run a program, JVM is responsible to converting Byte code to
the machine specific code.JRE is the implementation of JVM, it provides platform to execute java programs.

What is compile time and run time?
A.commpile time is when JAVAC takes a java text tile, checks for arrors in code and creates the 'class file which can
be run. Runtime is when the JVM executes the .class file

What is heap?
A.The heap is the run-time data area from which memory for all class instances and arrays is allocated. Heap is the
place where all objects stays during run time. It is part of RAM.

How java manage it's memory?
A.All the primitive variables and reference variable stays in stack. Heap contains the objects.Main methods executes
on stack. during the process of execution when a object lost his reference variable which is being erased from the
stack after completion of execution is waits for the Java automatic garbage collector, and object without no reference
variable being removed from heap by garbage collector.

What is the difference between String, StringBuffer and StringBuilder?
A.String is immutable, string buffer is mutable and it's methods and are threadsafe,stringbuilder is mutable but not
thread safe, but is faster than stringbuffer.

What is Singleton class?
A.Singleton Class is a class that allow only single object.

What is Serialization and Deserialization?
A.Serialization is a process of converting an object into a sequence of bytes.The reverse process of creating object
from sequence of bytes is called deserialization.

when to use transient variable in java?
A.When we do not want the variable serialized.

Difference between while and do..while loop?
A.while loop only performs while a specific condition is true. Do while performs at least 1 iteration.

What is Enum?
A.An enum is a special type of data type which is basically a collection (set) of constants.

What is Iterator?
A.Iterators are used in Collection framework in Java to retrieve elements one by one.

Which one will take more memory, an int or Integer?
A.Integer.

Why is String Immutable in Java?
A.To prevent security issues.

What is constructor chaining in Java?
A.Calling 1 constructor from another.

The difference between Serial and Parallel Garbage Collector?
A.Serial is the simplest but stops all threads so it sucks in a server environment.parallel is the default collector
it scans multiple threads and has less impact on stopping threads

What is JIT stands for?
A.Just In Time

Explain Java Heap space and Garbage collection?
A.At run-time the Java instances are stored in the heap memory area. When an object is not referenced anymore it becomes
eligible for removal from heap memory.During garbage collection process, those objects are removed from heap memory and
the space is reclaimed. Java garbage collection is an automatic process to manage the runtime memory used by programs.
Garbage connection of JAVA application is done by Garbage collector.

Can you guarantee the garbage collection process?
A.No

What is the difference between stack and heap in Java?
A. The main difference between heap and stack is that stack memory is used to store local variables and function call
while heap memory is used to store objects in Java.

What is reflection in java and why is it useful?
A.Reflection is an API which is used to examine or modify the behavior of methods, classes, interfaces at runtime.

what is multithreading in java?
A.Multithreading is a Java feature that allows concurrent execution of two or more parts of a program for maximum
utilization of CPU.Each part of such program is called a thread. So, threads are light-weight processes within a process.

What is the use of synchronization in Java?
A.With respect to multithreading, synchronization is the capability to control the access of multiple threads to shared
resources.

What is Framework?
A.Java Frameworks are nothing but large bodies of predefined Java code which we can apply to our own code to solve
the problem in a specific domain.

What are the testing Framework available in java?
A.Selenium, JUnit, testng, mockito, jwalk, Cucumber, Spring Test etc.

Difference between jUnit and testNG?
A.estNG is based on JUnit, but it allows parallel testing, makes it easier to group test cases

What are the dependencies for this project?
A.Dependencies define in which order project tasks and activities should be carried out.

what is dependency injection in java?
A.when a class is created using the new operator, the class isgit dependant on the parent class. New injects the dependency.

What is static binding and dynamic binding?
A.static occurs during compile time, dynamic during run time.









